# Systems Security
> Author: Majd Hamdan

>CSCI 1005: Crash Course/Systems Security-Professor Peter Johnson-Winter 2021

Here, you can find my notes from the time I enrolled in CSCI 1005: Crash Course/Systems Security with Professor Peter Johnson in the winter of 2021. This course is by far one of my favorite classes in the computer science department along with CSCI 202: Computer Architecture, CSCI 315: Systems Programming, CSCI 414: Advanced Operating Systems and CSCI 431: Computer Networks. In this class, I learnt the theory and practice of computer systems security and how (in)secure systems are implemented. This class had a unique structure; it was mostly lab based. After a short explanation of security topics, we would dive into scavenger hunts/bug finding and fixing/ and exploiting known bugs of programs on Linux. We were presented with a prompt and source code and given the entire class time to investigate on our own and accomplish the task. 

I often found myself jumping around between different fields and topics, from quantum computing to full-stack development then a right turn into robotics and control theory. Sometimes a short break at Non-Euclidean geometries followed by a sharp left into computer systems and architecture. On the way, I would often stop at physics of the early universe or digital electronics, state machines and RTL design. From time to time, I would even play with machine learning, microprocessor and android programming. I enjoy taking in new information and putting it to use. While this nature has many advantages, I often go for an extended period without thinking about topics I have learnt and mastered previously in my journey to learn new topics. As I visit these topics again, it often takes me some amount of time to get back to the same level I was before. I keep good notes and resources on my classes that help me retrieve general understanding of the topics relatively quickly. Retrieving my thought process, however, and detailed insight and intuition into the concepts of the topic require more effort. This usually involve doing, reading, and reviewing exercises/problems/application/ and snippets of codes that I have selected previously as I learnt the topic. While this method is usually successful, it’s a bit time consuming. Alternatively, I found that reading my thought process helped me get back to speed quite quickly. 

In these notes, I attempt to record my thought process in detail. I first present the prompt I was given and then walk through every step I took with documentation. The notes will sound more like a conversation than a documentation. Documenting everything in details in the style I do in these notes is, unfortunately, very time consuming (almost double the time of finding the answer). Due to the quick nature of this class, I often had to decide between good documentation and delivering the results. **As a result, some of these notes are incomplete. However, I found the notes that are clearly illustrate my though process and how I tackle problems**. If this interest you, I encourage you to check notebooks [1](https://github.com/majdh98/Systems-Security/blob/main/1_Linux_Kernel_Scavenger_Hunt.pdf), [2](https://github.com/majdh98/Systems-Security/blob/main/2__User_Permissions___Strace__and_manually_invoking_system_calls.pdf), [3](https://github.com/majdh98/Systems-Security/blob/main/3_Code_Injection__Shell_Execution.pdf), [4](https://github.com/majdh98/Systems-Security/blob/main/4__libpng_1_2_5_bug.pdf), and [5](https://github.com/majdh98/Systems-Security/blob/main/5__libc_and_ROP_Chain.pdf)


Some of the tools I used throughout this class are: gdb, strace, mtr (tracerouting), Wireshark, Scapy, etc..
